Guide for creating expo modules (#15261)
expo/expo: docs/pages/modules/overview.md

---
title: Overview
---

import { CodeBlocksTable } from '~/components/plugins/CodeBlocksTable';

> Expo Modules is a set of APIs and utils to improve the process of developing native modules for React Native and increase its capabilities. The entire ecosystem consists of the following parts, each one described in details on the dedicated pages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expo Modules is a set of APIs and utilities to improve the process of developing native modules for Expo and React Native and expand your app's capabilities.
```

> - [Module API](module-api) — Allows creating native modules in a modern way, using Swift and Kotlin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Module API](./module-api.md) — Create native modules using Swift and Kotlin.
```

@byCedric - can you confirm if this is your preferred way to link to a docs page that will be compatible with your broken link detection script? (after we fix all of the cases where we don't follow the convention :P)

> - [Autolinking](autolinking) — The mechanism that automatically links native dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Autolinking](autolinking) — Link native dependencies automatically.
```

> - [AppDelegate Subscribers](appdelegate-subscribers) — Allows reacting to iOS AppDelegate events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [AppDelegate Subscribers](appdelegate-subscribers) — Respond to iOS AppDelegate events.
```

> - [Module Config](module-config) — The module config file to configure and opt into some features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Module Config](module-config) — Configure and opt in to features.
```

> If you would like to create a new Expo module from scratch, we have prepared a dedicated command for this: `npx create-expo-module`.<br/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new Expo module from scratch, run `npx create-expo-module`.<br/>
```

Reviewer: i might change this to a heading:

```
## Create a new Expo module

The `create-expo-module` package initializes a new Expo module from scratch.

<!-- insert <TerminalBlock /> like https://docs.expo.dev/get-started/create-a-new-app/#initializing-the-project ->
```

easier to find at a glance. then i'd add a similar heading for "Using the Expo Modules API in an existing React Native library"

In case you just want to use something from Expo Modules API in your existing React Native library (yes, you can!), follow the steps below.

> 1️⃣ Create the [module config](module-config) **expo-module.config.json** file just near your **package.json** and start from the empty object `{}` in there.<br/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Initialize the module config

Create the [module config](module-config) **expo-module.config.json** file just near your **package.json** and start from the empty object `{}` in there.<br/>
```

Reviewer: <img width="1149" alt="Screen Shot 2021-11-29 at 6 26 50 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/90494/143975134-db4e16d4-ed93-4b0a-8217-53639142df00.png">

also same comment re: heading and consistency

> 2️⃣ Add `expo-modules-core` as a dependency in your podspec and **build.gradle** files.<br/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2. Add the `expo-modules-core` dependency

Add `expo-modules-core` as a dependency in your podspec and **build.gradle** files.<br/>
```

<CodeBlocksTable tabs={["*.podspec", "build.gradle"]}>

```ruby
# ...
Pod::Spec.new do |s|
  # ...
  s.dependency 'ExpoModulesCore'
end
```

```groovy
// ...
dependencies {
  // ...
  implementation project(':expo-modules-core')
}
```

</CodeBlocksTable>

> 3️⃣ Add `expo` package as a peer dependency in your **package.json** — we recommend using `*` as a version range so as not to cause any duplicated packages in user's **node_modules** folder.<br/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3. Add the `expo` peer dependency 

Add `expo` package as a peer dependency in your **package.json** — we recommend using `*` as a version range so as not to cause any duplicated packages in user's **node_modules** folder.<br/>
```

<CodeBlocksTable tabs={["package.json"]}>

```json
{
  // ...
  "peerDependencies": {
    "expo": "*"
  }
}
```

</CodeBlocksTable>

> And Voilà! To set up and opt into some specific features go into the other pages in this section and follow the steps listed there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now use Expo Modules APIs in your library. A common use case for integrating these APIs in a React Native library is to integrate with [AppDelegateSubscribers](./appdelegate-subscribers.md) and <!-- insert MainActivity thing here -->.
```

it's good to confirm what you just did at the end, and provide some clear next step for someone to just click on without needing to scroll

- [Autolinking](./autolinking.md) — Link native dependencies automatically.
- [AppDelegate Subscribers](./appdelegate-subscribers.md) — Respond to iOS AppDelegate events.
- [Module Config](./module-config.md) — Configure and opt in to features.

## Setup

To create a new Expo module from scratch, run `npx create-expo-module`.<br/>
In case you just want to use something from Expo Modules API in your existing React Native library (yes, you can!), follow the steps below.

### 1. Initialize the module config

Create the [module config](module-config) **expo-module.config.json** file just near your **package.json** and start from the empty object `{}` in there. We will fill it in later to enable specific features. <br/>

### 2. Add the `expo-modules-core` dependency

Add `expo-modules-core` as a dependency in your podspec and **build.gradle** files.<br/>

<CodeBlocksTable tabs={["*.podspec", "build.gradle"]}>

```ruby
# ...
Pod::Spec.new do |s|
  # ...
  s.dependency 'ExpoModulesCore'
end
```

```groovy
// ...
dependencies {
  // ...
  implementation project(':expo-modules-core')
}
```

</CodeBlocksTable>

### 3. Add the `expo` peer dependency

> Add `expo` package as a peer dependency in your **package.json** — we recommend using `*` as a version range so as not to cause any duplicated packages in user's **node_modules** folder. Depending on `expo-modules-core` is not needed in **package.json** as it's already provided by the `expo` package with the version of core that is compatible with specific SDK.<br/>

Reviewer: do you think we should suggest adding a dev dependency on expo as well?

Author: Is there any reason to have it as a dev dependency? It doesn't provide any CLI or tools that you may need during development 🤔 What would be the version range here? `*` as well, or the minimal SDK version that you support?

Reviewer: maybe you will import from `expo-modules-core` or `expo` from the js code so it's useful to have around in order to have types and such

---
title: Overview
---

import { CodeBlocksTable } from '~/components/plugins/CodeBlocksTable';

Expo Modules is a set of APIs and utilities to improve the process of developing native modules for Expo and React Native and expand your app's capabilities.

- [Module API](./module-api.md) — Create native modules using Swift and Kotlin (_experimental_).
- [AppDelegate Subscribers](./appdelegate-subscribers.md) — Respond to iOS AppDelegate events.
- [Module Config](./module-config.md) — Configure and opt in to features.

<!--
- [Autolinking](./autolinking.md) — Link native dependencies automatically.
- React Delegates
- Config Plugins
-->

## Setup

> To create a new Expo module from scratch, run `npx create-expo-module`.<br/>

Reviewer 2: `npx create-expo-module` doesn't seem to be working.

![Screen Shot 2021-12-31 at 2 03 37 AM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19273413/147795392-64a0ac16-812a-4c01-b72a-aec82bea225d.png)
